README.md, before:

# Quill Delta to HTML Parser

A PHP library to parse [Quill WYSIWYG](https://quilljs.com/) [Deltas](https://github.com/quilljs/delta) into HTML - Flexibel and extendible for custom elements. Every element is parsed by the same mechanism, this makes it easy to extend and understand.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdf80e7b61e4505bc421/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nadar/quill-delta-parser/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdf80e7b61e4505bc421/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nadar/quill-delta-parser/test_coverage)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)

What is Quill? Quill is a free, open source WYSIWYG editor built for the modern web. With its modular architecture and expressive API, it is completely customizable to fit any need.

## Installation

The package is only available trough composer:

```sh
composer require nadar/quill-delta-parser
```

## Usage

```php
use nadar\quill\Lexer;

$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->escapeInput = true;

// echoing the html for the given json ops.
echo $lexer->render();
```

Where `$json` is the ops json array from quill, for example:

```json
{
  "ops": [
    {
      "insert": "Hello"
    },
    {
      "attributes": {
        "header": 1
      },
      "insert": "\n"
    },
    {
      "insert": "\nThis is the php quill "
    },
    {
      "attributes": {
        "bold": true
      },
      "insert": "parser"
    },
    {
      "insert": "!\n"
    }
  ]
}
```

This would render the following HTML:

```html
<h1>Hello</h1>
<p><br></p>
<p>This is the php quill <strong>parser</strong>!</p>
```

## Security

Currently html escaping is not turned on by default. This means that a delta where the insert or attributes contain user supplied data can cause XSS.

To use html escaping always set `$lexer->escapeInput` to true:

```php
use nadar\quill\Lexer;

$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->escapeInput = true;
```

The next major version will set this to true by default.

## Extend the Parser

In order to extend the Parser by adding your own listeneres (this can be the case if you are using quill plugins which generates custom delta code), you have to decide whether its:

+ inline element: Replaces content with new parsed content, this is mostly the case when working with quill extensions.
+ block element: Block elements which encloses the whole input with a tag, for example heading.

An example for a mention plugin which generates the following delta `{"insert":{"mention":{"id":"1","value":"Basil","denotationChar":"@"}}}` an inline plugin could look like this:

```php
class Mention extends InlineListener
{
    /**
     * {@inheritDoc}
     */
    public function process(Line $line)
    {
      // check if input is json, decodes to an array and checks if the key "mention" 
      // exsts, if yes return the value for this key.
      $mention = $line->insertJsonKey('mention');
      if ($mention) {
            // use default inline behavior, updates the content and append to next "block" element.
            // the value in this example would be "<mention>Basil</mention>".
            $this->updateInput($line, '<mention>'.$mention['value'].'</mention>');
    }
}
```

Now register the listenere:

```php
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->registerListener(new Mention);
echo $lexer->render();
```

## Overide built-in Listeners

Certain listeners (image, video, color) produce a HTML output which maybe not suit your use case, so you have to the option to override the properties of those plugins, example with image tags:

```php
$image = new Image();
$image->wrapper = '<img src="{src}" class="my-image" />';

// override the default plugin from the lexer:
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->registerListener($image);
echo $lexer->render();
```

## Debuging

Sometimes the handling of delta and how the data is parsed is very hard to debug and understand. Therefore you can use the debugger class which will print a table with informations about how the data is parsed.

```php
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->render(); // make sure to run the render before call debugPrint();
 
$debug = new Debug($lexer);
echo $debug->debugPrint();
```

#### Credits

+ [Lode Claassen](https://github.com/lode)
+ [Dean Blackborough](https://github.com/deanblackborough)

Commit message:

add docker info to readme

README.md, after:

# Quill Delta to HTML Parser

A PHP library to parse [Quill WYSIWYG](https://quilljs.com/) [Deltas](https://github.com/quilljs/delta) into HTML - Flexibel and extendible for custom elements. Every element is parsed by the same mechanism, this makes it easy to extend and understand.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdf80e7b61e4505bc421/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nadar/quill-delta-parser/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/fdf80e7b61e4505bc421/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/nadar/quill-delta-parser/test_coverage)
[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/nadar/quill-delta-parser/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/nadar/quill-delta-parser)

What is Quill? Quill is a free, open source WYSIWYG editor built for the modern web. With its modular architecture and expressive API, it is completely customizable to fit any need.

## Installation

The package is only available trough composer:

```sh
composer require nadar/quill-delta-parser
```

## Usage

```php
use nadar\quill\Lexer;

$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->escapeInput = true;

// echoing the html for the given json ops.
echo $lexer->render();
```

Where `$json` is the ops json array from quill, for example:

```json
{
  "ops": [
    {
      "insert": "Hello"
    },
    {
      "attributes": {
        "header": 1
      },
      "insert": "\n"
    },
    {
      "insert": "\nThis is the php quill "
    },
    {
      "attributes": {
        "bold": true
      },
      "insert": "parser"
    },
    {
      "insert": "!\n"
    }
  ]
}
```

This would render the following HTML:

```html
<h1>Hello</h1>
<p><br></p>
<p>This is the php quill <strong>parser</strong>!</p>
```

## Security

Currently html escaping is not turned on by default. This means that a delta where the insert or attributes contain user supplied data can cause XSS.

To use html escaping always set `$lexer->escapeInput` to true:

```php
use nadar\quill\Lexer;

$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->escapeInput = true;
```

The next major version will set this to true by default.

## Extend the Parser

In order to extend the Parser by adding your own listeneres (this can be the case if you are using quill plugins which generates custom delta code), you have to decide whether its:

+ inline element: Replaces content with new parsed content, this is mostly the case when working with quill extensions.
+ block element: Block elements which encloses the whole input with a tag, for example heading.

An example for a mention plugin which generates the following delta `{"insert":{"mention":{"id":"1","value":"Basil","denotationChar":"@"}}}` an inline plugin could look like this:

```php
class Mention extends InlineListener
{
    /**
     * {@inheritDoc}
     */
    public function process(Line $line)
    {
      // check if input is json, decodes to an array and checks if the key "mention" 
      // exsts, if yes return the value for this key.
      $mention = $line->insertJsonKey('mention');
      if ($mention) {
            // use default inline behavior, updates the content and append to next "block" element.
            // the value in this example would be "<mention>Basil</mention>".
            $this->updateInput($line, '<mention>'.$mention['value'].'</mention>');
    }
}
```

Now register the listenere:

```php
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->registerListener(new Mention);
echo $lexer->render();
```

## Overide built-in Listeners

Certain listeners (image, video, color) produce a HTML output which maybe not suit your use case, so you have to the option to override the properties of those plugins, example with image tags:

```php
$image = new Image();
$image->wrapper = '<img src="{src}" class="my-image" />';

// override the default plugin from the lexer:
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->registerListener($image);
echo $lexer->render();
```

## Debuging

Sometimes the handling of delta and how the data is parsed is very hard to debug and understand. Therefore you can use the debugger class which will print a table with informations about how the data is parsed.

```php
$lexer = new Lexer($json);
$lexer->render(); // make sure to run the render before call debugPrint();
 
$debug = new Debug($lexer);
echo $debug->debugPrint();
```

There is also a built in docker compose file which provides access to the output.php file. The output.php helps to directly write content with the quill editor while displaying what is rendered including all debug informations. In order to run this docker webserver execute the following command in the root directory of your clone:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

and visit `http://localhost:5555/` in your browser.

#### Credits

+ [Lode Claassen](https://github.com/lode)
+ [Dean Blackborough](https://github.com/deanblackborough)
